It is finally time. You guys gave me
2,000 likes in my previous video. And
you know what that means? I will create
an AI model using AI. So, shout out to
all of you guys for making this happen.
Anyway, let's open Claude and let's
start building our prompt.
Build me a prompt of a complete and
runnable codebase to create a tiny GPT
style language model around 10 to 30.
I can't even speak. My throat is hurting
right now. Anyway, the goal of this
video is to see if we can build a small
LM around 10 to 30 million parameters
and we're going to build that using
PyTorch trained on a small plane English
markdown file data set designed to run
locally on a single consumer GPU. I have
RTX 570 without distributed training,
etc. I'm not going to read all of that.
If you want to take this prompt, you can
just take a screenshot of this video.
But basically, I just wrote it with the
help of chat GPT, but I just made
changes such as the type of the file and
the GPU. I have RTX 570. You know what
that means? So, let's send that. Here we
go. This is going to be a fun video
because this is such a big project.
Honestly, I want to make this as small
as possible. Otherwise, it's going to be
a problem. As you can see, it's saying
this is a large prompt or document
creation task. Let me create a
comprehensive well ststructured markdown
prompt document. I shouldn't have did
what I did in the previous video. I
should have asked you to give me like
10,000 likes to make this video
possible. But now it's too late, so I'll
just uh make it happen. Okay, so here is
our complete prompt. You are an expert
machine language engineer. Machine
learning engineer. Machine language.
What the hell was that? Okay, so I'm
just going to copy this and let's go
back to cursor and paste the prompt
here. We'll be using Opus 4.6 six max.
And I also want to point out that this
is going to be the data set that I'll
use to train my AI model. This is
definitely not going to be enough, but
we'll just go with it. And if our AI
model is hungry for more data, then
we'll just ask Mark Zuckerberg. I'm kind
of scared, bro, because this is a big
project. And my broke as is going to be
more broke after this video. That's why
I need you guys to subscribe. Please, I
need this.
All right, guys. It is finally done. And
here is the project structure. So we
have tiny GPT. We can see it right over
here. We have all the files. This took
17 minutes by the way. So it's not bad.
So I need to put my markdown files
inside of the corpus folder.
It really followed the instructions. You
can see here it's just below 400 lines
of codes. And in the requirements, I
don't have any dependencies from hogging
face. We just have five dependencies in
total. Let's take a look at it. So, we
have PyTorch, Sentence Piece, NumPy,
TensorBoard, and TQDM.
Okay, I actually have no idea what they
are, but just so you know, let's proceed
to the quick start. First, we need to
install the dependencies, obviously. So,
let's open our terminal and let's copy
the following command and paste it here.
I'm not sure if I have PIP but in the
previous video I installed Python so I
might I should have it.
Okay. So you might have installed Python
packages into your global environment
which can cause conflicts between
package. Would you like to create a
virtual environment with these packages
to isolate? Okay, please.
The next step is put your MD files
inside of the corpus folder. We already
did this. Therefore the next step should
be train the tokenizer. All right. So,
we just need to run this command
and run it. All right. So, we got an
error. No such file or directory. Oh,
it's inside of the tiny GPT folder. My
bad. Okay. So, cd and should be tiny
GPT. Here we go. CLS. And we'll just
paste the command. Run it. Oh boy, we
got our first error. So, we got a module
not found error. So, I'm just going to
let Corser do the installation. Okay.
So, now it's fixed. It even run the same
command. And now I just need to run the
next command. So it should be Python
prepared data. py. So obviously we'll
copy that and go back to the terminal.
Clear this and just paste the command
here. Run it. And there you go.
Tokenizer loaded with a vocab size of
3,266.
And that is definitely small, but we're
not judging by the size. It's about the
performance. I loaded one document, and
that should be the one inside of the
data folder. The next step is pre-train
the model. So let's copy that. Here we
go. Okay, so we have the following
error. It says torch not compiled with
CUDA enabled. I have no idea how to fix
this myself. So I'm just going to copy
the error. And this time I'm going to
use composer 1.5. Okay, so what it's
doing is it's fixing the problem, but at
the same time running the same command
to see if it's working already or not.
So I probably don't have to run the same
command after. I don't know if you guys
can hear my PC, but it's going crazy.
Can you guys hear that?
Now, I'm afraid this is going to take
some time. So, what I'm going to do is
just fast forward in time.
>> A few inches.
>> Man, that took so long because I think I
was using CPU. So, if I want to make it
faster, I would have to install CUDA
using the following command.
Here we go. We have CUDA available. It
is now set to true. And the device is
Nvidia GeForce RTX 5070. Let me just
flex. Okay, let's proceed and train. So
let's just execute the same train.py.
Here we go. Look at that. This is fire.
We have train tokens. We have vault
tokens. And we have the following
modules and shape and count. Look at
those big number. Guys, jokes aside. If
I release this AI model, I'm going to be
the next Illen Musk because I'm going to
use your data. Anthropic and GPT. You
guys better watch out because weekly
model is about to come. Pause. Okay. So,
I ask if it's okay to finally run the
chat. And it says here that we can run
it as long as we have at least best
checkpoint or last checkpoint. And I can
see right here that we have it already.
So I guess we can finally do it. Okay,
here we go. We have tiny GPT chat. We
have a total of 13,683,824
parameters. And the device is set to
CPU. I'm not sure if we can change that.
And the checkpoint that it's using is
the best.pt. Of course, the temperature
is set to 0.8, meaning we'll get more
creative response. And finally, we have
commands to configure the model, I
guess. Anyway, let's give the help
command a try. Okay, so we have reset to
clear the conversation history, quit to
obviously exit and the forward/temp to
um set the sampling temperature, and top
kx to set the top k value. I'm not going
to change anything, okay? I'm just going
to leave them as is. So, let's just say
hello.
Okay, hold on. We got something. Okay,
it literally just displayed whatever I
had in my data markdown.
That is funny. So, now that the LLM is
working, we can send a prompt and get a
response. The next thing that we need to
do is keep on feeding it, keep on
training the model and keep feeding it
with data again and again and again so
that it gets better. If that doesn't
work, we can try and adjust the
temperature and do the optional step,
which is fine-tuning. So, with all that
said, let's try it. Here we freaking go.
I'm not sure if it's different from the
previous one, but let's see. Um, who is
Bernard,
please?
Hold on. Hold on. Does that make sense?
It kind of makes sense. So, the question
is, who is Bernard? And the answer is
clust event
reacting body cleaner fing
but this is a good start to you guys.
This might not make any sense but that
means the model is working. That means
it's thinking. Okay. So here's what I'm
going to do next. I'm going to copy this
and I'm just going to paste it here. I'm
just going to ask what does this mean?
So yes, the model is working. It loaded,
took your input and produced a sequence
of tokens. The output is gibberish
because of how the model was trained and
used. So what is happening right now is
that the model is predicting the next
most likely token based on patterns it
learned during the training. So it's not
really thinking or reasoning. It's just
generating text. So to get a more
coherent response, we can use something
like SFT or supervised fine-tuning. This
will train our model on prompt and
response examples. Again, I'm also
learning this right now, so perhaps my
statements are false, but I got to say
this is really interesting. I highly
recommend that you guys learn about all
of this as well. Okay, now it's done. We
just need to run Python fine-tune.py.
So, let's copy this and we'll just run
it here. Essentially, what it's going to
do is load our checkpoints and train on
the SFT data and then create another
checkpoints that our LLM could use. So,
I guess this is how our workflow should
look like. We create more data sets,
then prepare the data, then we train,
and then fine-tune. I did this a couple
more times until I was able to get
something interesting. Here, I asked,
"Who is Bernard?" And then my LLM
responded with, "Bernard is a the
Philippines." And I was like, "Oh, that
was actually so close." I mean,
grammatically it's not right, but it did
make a lot of sense. But of course, I'm
not really satisfied with what we have
right now. So, I did try to fix more
things in the project. First, I
investigated why training the model is
so slow. As you can see here, I'm still
using CPU. So, apparently the problem
was the version of my Python. I
installed version 3.14 and it's not
compatible with my GPU. So, I asked
Gemini to help me with that and I
installed version 3.12. After going
through the same workflow, now I asked
my own LM the same question and the
answer is
bam. This is what I wanted to see. Bird
Polyario is a software engineer from the
Philippines. His birthday is August 10,
1986. And my favorite snack is Mim made.
Don't ask. Don't ask about. And that's
going to be it for this video, guys.
This has been a really fun project. I
didn't really expect to be able to make
such model, but here we are. So, with
all that said, if you guys want to test
this yourself, you can join us and
become a member. The link to download
should be in the comments below. Now, I
just want to say a massive shout out to
the new members. You guys are amazing.
If you guys have more ideas, let me know
in the comments below. And if you guys
enjoyed this video, be sure to leave a
like and sub to the channel. If you guys
give this video 10,000 likes, I will
continue training this model. And who
knows, maybe I'd release this as a web
app and you guys can play with it. Thank
you guys so much for watching. I will
catch you in the next one. Bye.